# Veritone Benchmark (Beta)

**Veritone Benchmark** is a self-service tool that allows you to compare the results generated by cognitive engines against each other. For AIWare developers, this allows you to compare your engine against other engines, so that you can refine your engines to be best in class. For AIWare users, Benchmark allows you to figure out which engines generate the best combination of speed, accuracy, and performance all while minimizing cost -- allowing AIWare to deliver more business value to you versus individual AI providers.

## Introduction {docsify-ignore}

One of the main benefits of AIWare is the ability to run engines from different providers to process your media. With choice comes the problem: how do I know which engines will provide the best results? Benchmark is designed to make it easy for you to compare results (also known as assets) against each other, allowing you to see engine performance over time as well as apples-to-apples comparison of engines against each other.

> **What is an asset?**

An asset is simply a piece of data on a [TDO](apis/tutorials/upload-and-process?id=_1-create-a-temporal-data-object-tdo). Most of the time an asset will be the result from a specific run of a cognitive engine for a specific engine capability.

## TO DO: How do I benchmark a TDO? {docsify-ignore}

TO DO: Screenshots for the following steps.

1. Selecting a TDO (from Benchmark) and/or Selecting a TDO (from CMS) Note: If there are not enough transcript assets, please run more engines on the TDO or select a different TDO.

2. Screenshot of TDO screen and starting a new benchmark job.

3. Screenshot of viewing assets, and selecting the most accurate baseline.

4. Screenshot of selecting other assets.

5. Screenshot of refreshing the benchmarks on a TDO page.

6. Screenshot of viewing a result.

## How does it work? {docsify-ignore}

Benchmark works by allowing you to select TDOs that have already been processed through AIWare, and selecting the assets that have already been generated by cognitive engines on the TDO. Once multiple assets selected, the user selects the most accurate asset to be the baseline, and a benchmark job is fired to compare the rest of the assets against the baseline asset.

> **Why do I have to pick a baseline manually?**

The key difference between AI vs traditional computation algorithms is that with AI processing the computer can generate, but not understand, the results. Before the computer can compare the results against each other, a human fluent in the transcribed language needs to "train" or "teach" the machine which asset is the most accurate.

> **What if I select the wrong baseline asset?**

If you select the wrong baseline asset, the scores reported by benchmark will not match the reality of which transcript is most accurate to people fluent in the transcribed language.

## What do these numbers mean? {docsify-ignore}

Based on our research, Veritone has determined [word error rate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word_error_rate) to be the best overall indicator of transcript similarity. Word error rate is simply any extra words inserted, deleted, or substituted in the benchmarked asset divided by the total number of words in the baseline asset. Benchmark "scores" assets each other by giving a benchmarked asset 100 points to start with. Points are then removed for differences from the baseline.

> The formula for calculating score is: 100 – MIN(wordErrorRate, 100)

For example, let's use the following sentence as our baseline transcript and compare various other "assets" to it and see how the score would be calculated.

**Baseline Asset:** ```The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog```

| Score         | 100 | N/A |
|---------------|-----|---|
| Insertions    | 0   | N/A |
| Deletions     | 0   | N/A |
| Substitutions | 0   | N/A |

**Asset from Hypothetical Engine 1:** ```The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy cat```

| Score         | 88.9 |    |
|---------------|-----|---|
| Insertions    | 0   | N/A |
| Deletions     | 0   | N/A |
| Substitutions | 1   | cat |

*Calculation: 100 - ( 1 substitution / 9 * 100)* {docsify-ignore}

**Asset from Hypothetical Engine 2:** ```The quick brown fox jumped over the cat```

| Score         | 77.8 |    |
|---------------|-----|---|
| Insertions    | 0   | N/A |
| Deletions     | 1   | lazy |
| Substitutions | 1   | cat |

*Calculation: 100 - ( 1 substitution + 1 deletion ) / 9 * 100* {docsify-ignore}

## Limitations {docsify-ignore}

Benchmarking is currently limited only to transcript results, single TDOs, and existing results in the system. We are working hard to improve the capabilities of Benchmark to make it easier to store and find results, aggregate results across multiple TDOs, and fire off engines in realtime -- as well as expand it to other engine capabilities.