# Building a Translation Engine

[badge/API/Yes/green]
[badge/Search/No/red]
[badge/UI/Partial/yellow]

Translation engines take text content and translate it to another language, ideally outputting it in the same format as the input.

## Engine Input Options

Translation engines are unique in that they can translate many different input types.
The input formats the engine will receive are dependent on the `supportInputFormats` key in the engine manifest.

There are 5 types of input formats a translation engine may support:

- Full documents
  - [Plain text documents](/developer/engines/cognitive/text/translation/plain-text/): usually files with `.txt` extensions
  - [Rich text documents](/developer/engines/cognitive/text/translation/rich-text/) (e.g. `.docx`, `.pdf`, etc.)
- `vtn-standard` segments: `.json` snippets with contents according to the [engine output specifications](/developer/engines/standards/engine-output/)
  - [Extracted Text](/developer/engines/cognitive/text/translation/extracted-text/) extracted from documents by [text extraction engines](/developer/engines/cognitive/text/text-extraction/)
  - [Recognized (OCR) Text](/developer/engines/cognitive/text/translation/recognized-text/) extracted from photos and videos by [text recognition engines](/developer/engines/cognitive/vision/text-recognition/)
  - [Transcripts](/developer/engines/cognitive/text/translation/transcript/) generated by [transcription engines](/developer/engines/cognitive/speech/transcription/)

Translation engines can choose to support one or more of these input formats by specifying the proper mime types in their engine manifest's `supportedInputFormats` field.
See the individual sub-pages for details on how to support each individual type.

As the engine developer, you may decide which formats to support and whether to support them in a single engine or separate ones.

## Custom Fields

Leveraging [custom fields](/developer/engines/custom-fields/) is particularly important for translation engines due to the many different languages and modes they can run in.
Often times, translation engines will define custom fields for inputs such as:

- Input language
- Output language
- Input document type (e.g. plain, rich, extracted, recognized, transcript)
- Output document type (e.g. plain, rich, extracted, recognized, transcript)

The values submitted to these fields by users can then be accessed by the engine in the message payload it receives.
