# Terms & Conditions

**VERITONE DEVELOPER APPLICATION**

**TERMS AND CONDITIONS**

**(Effective Date: August 30, 2017)**

The Veritone Developer Application (VDA) is being made available by Veritone, Inc. ("Veritone") to developers (each, a “Developer”) for purposes of developing, testing and maintaining (1) Applications, (2) Engines, and/or (3) Data Products that interoperate with the Veritone Platform, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein (“Terms and Conditions”).

**BY REGISTERING FOR AN ACCOUNT AND ACCESSING THE VDA, YOU, AS DEVELOPER, AGREE TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS. IF YOU ARE ENTERING INTO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY OR OTHER LEGAL ENTITY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO BIND SUCH ENTITY TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, IN WHICH CASE THE TERM "DEVELOPER" SHALL REFER TO SUCH ENTITY. IF YOU DO NOT HAVE SUCH AUTHORITY, OR IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, YOU MUST NOT REGISTER FOR AN ACCOUNT AND YOU MAY NOT USE THE VDA.**

1. **1.     Definitions.**

**1.1.   Application(s)** means a general or special purpose software application that can be integrated with the Platform to organize, manage, monitor, search, analyze or otherwise manipulate content and associated metadata within the Platform.

**1.2.   Data Product(s)** means general or special purpose data interfacing software (including but not limited to required adaptors and/or connectors) for extraction, transformation, data format definition and conversion, and loading of structured or unstructured data sets for integration with the Platform.

**1.3.   Developer Content** means any material, content, media or data that Developer uploads to the Platform.

**1.4.   Developer Software** means one or more Applications, Engines and/or Data Products developed by Developer to integrate with the Platform.

**1.5.   Engine(s)** means cognitive processing software that processes unstructured data, produces metadata thereof and returns the metadata to the Platform.

**1.6.   Intellectual Property Rights** means all forms of proprietary rights, title, interest, and ownership including patents, patent rights, copyrights, trademarks, trade dresses, trade secrets, know-how, mask works, *droit moral* (moral rights), publicity rights and all similar rights of every type that may exist now or in the future in any jurisdiction, including without limitation all applications and registrations therefore and rights to apply for any of the foregoing.

**1.7.   Platform** means the Veritone Platform, a proprietary artificial intelligence operating system that transforms data utilizing an open cognitive engine ecosystem and suite of applications, including all services made available through such platform.

**1.8.   Software Development Kit, or SDK,** means the set of Veritone documentation, materials, software, application programming interfaces (APIs), samples and other development tools made available by Veritone through the VDA and/or other related Veritone or third party sites, as communicated by Veritone, to facilitate Developer’s development of the Developer Software.

**1.9.   Veritone Content** means all data, media and other content of Veritone and/or end users of the Platform that is made available by Veritone in the Platform or is otherwise furnished by Veritone to Developer (including engine training sets), together with all associated metadata derived therefrom that is generated by the Developer Software.

**2.     License to VDA, SDK and Platform.**

**2.1.   VDA and SDK.** Subject to these Terms and Conditions, Veritone grants to Developer a limited, nonexclusive, nontransferable license to use the VDA and the SDK solely to develop, test, maintain and support the Developer Software as required for integration with the Platform and for no other purpose.  Developer agrees that it shall not: (i) license, sublicense, sell, resell, rent, lease, transfer, assign, distribute, display or otherwise make the VDA or the SDK available to any third party, or use them to provide services to any third party; (ii) reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, modify, translate, reconstruct, omit, distort, obscure, copy or create derivative works of, or attempt to derive the source code of, all or any portion of the VDA or the SDK, any underlying software, or any other Veritone Property (as defined below); (iii) remove any proprietary notices, labels or marks from the VDA or the SDK; (iv) violate any laws, rules or regulations, or any third party rights, in its use of the VDA or the SDK or in its development and/or provision of the Developer Software; or (v) use the VDA or the SDK to create any Developer Software or other program that would disable, hack or otherwise interfere with any security, digital rights management, verification or authentication mechanisms implemented in or by the Platform, the SDK or other Veritone software or technology, or enable others to do so.

**2.2.   Platform.** Developer acknowledges that the VDA is an application within the Platform and, accordingly, in conjunction with Developer’s access and use of the VDA, Developer will have access to certain other functionality of, and content contained in, the Platform, and will have the ability to upload Developer Content to the Platform in connection with its development and testing of the Developer Software. Developer’s access and use of the Platform (including the VDA) shall be governed by the licenses, restrictions, terms and conditions set forth in Veritone’s Terms of Service, available at [www.veritone.com](http://www.veritone.com/), as may be updated from time to time, which are incorporated herein by reference, in addition to these Terms and Conditions.  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of these Terms and Conditions and such Terms of Service, the provisions of these Terms and Conditions shall govern and control.

**3.     License to Developer Software.** Subject to these Terms and Conditions, Developer hereby grants to Veritone a limited, nonexclusive, nontransferable, royalty-free license to use and display the Developer Software and the Developer Content in connection with Developer’s use of the VDA and Veritone’s evaluation, testing and approval of the Developer Software. In addition, following the approval of the Developer Software for release in the Platform, subject to payment of the license, usage and/or other fees (if any) mutually agreed upon by the parties in writing, Developer hereby grants to Veritone a limited, nonexclusive, worldwide, fully paid-up license and right to use the Developer Software in conjunction with the Platform, which is made generally available to Veritone’s customers, and grants Veritone the right to sublicense the Developer Software to end users of the Platform for use in conjunction with such end users’ use of the Platform, and to Veritone’s third party service providers as required in connection with Veritone’s provision of the Platform.  Veritone agrees that it shall not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, modify, translate, reconstruct, omit, distort, obscure, copy or create derivative works of all or any portion of the Developer Software or any other Developer Property (as defined below), except to the extent required to interface and operate the Developer Software with the Platform. Developer further grants Veritone the right to use and display Developer’s trademarks, trade names and logos in conjunction with Veritone’s use of the Developer Software in the Platform, in the event that Veritone elects to do so in its sole discretion.

**4.     Intellectual Property Ownership.**

**4.1.   Veritone Property.** The VDA, the SDK and the Platform are licensed by Veritone to Developer, and not sold.  As between Veritone and Developer, Veritone and/or its respective licensors retain all right, title and interest (including Intellectual Property Rights) in and to the VDA, the SDK and the Platform, including, but not limited to, all elements, components, content, technology, software, code, documentation, derivative works, revisions, enhancements, modifications, condensations and/or compilations of or relating to the VDA, the SDK and the Platform, and any trademarks, trade names, brand identifiers, materials and information, which are created, authored, developed, conceived and/or reduced to practice by Veritone and/or its respective licensors (collectively, "**Veritone Property**"). Developer acquires only the right to use the VDA, the SDK and the Platform in accordance with these Terms and Conditions and does not acquire any rights of ownership. Except as expressly set forth in these Terms and Conditions, no right or license, express or implied, is granted to Developer or any third party by estoppel, implication, exhaustion or other doctrine of law, equity or otherwise with respect to any Veritone Property. Developer shall not use any trademarks, trade names, logos or any other marks belonging or licensed to Veritone in any way except as expressly authorized in writing by Veritone. Developer agrees that all goodwill arising out of Developer’s authorized use of Veritone’s marks shall inure to the benefit of and belong to Veritone. As between the parties, all Veritone Content shall at all times remain the property of Veritone. 

**4.2.   Developer Property.** As between Developer and Veritone, Developer retains all right, title and interest (including Intellectual Property Rights) in and to the Developer Software and Developer Content, and any software, technology, trademarks, brand identifiers, materials and information which are independently created, authored, developed, conceived or reduced to practice by Developer.

**5.     Developer Software Requirements, Testing and Approval.**

**5.1.   Developer Software Requirements.** The Developer Software shall meet the requirements, standards and guidelines (including but not limited to those related to functionality, security and interfacing) that are published by Veritone through the VDA and the SDK or communicated to Developer by other means (collectively, the "Requirements").

**5.2.   Developer Testing.**  Developer shall be responsible for testing the Developer Software to verify that it conforms to the Requirements prior to submission of the Developer Software to Veritone for approval.

**5.3.   Processing and Storage Limitations.**  In conjunction with Developer’s development, testing and/or maintenance of the Developer Software, Developer may upload, store and/or process Developer Content and/or other Platform content.  Veritone reserves the right to impose limits on processing hours and the amount of Developer Content uploaded and stored on the Platform, and may change such limits from time to time in its sole discretion.  Developer’s usage of processing hours and/or storage capacity in excess of such limits will require prior approval by Veritone and will be subject to payment of fees by Developer at Veritone’s then-current rates.

**5.4.   Veritone Approval.**  Upon completion of development and testing of the Developer Software, Developer will submit it for evaluation, testing and approval by Veritone. The information and materials required to be submitted to Veritone will be published by Veritone through the VDA and the SDK or communicated to Developer by other means (the "Evaluation Package").  By submitting an Evaluation Package, Developer represents and warrants that the Developer Software complies with the Requirements, and that Developer has not hidden, misrepresented or obscured any features, content, services or functionality of the Developer Software.  Veritone may conduct any evaluation and testing, including but not limited to that related to the functionality, performance, security and integration of the Developer Software, as Veritone deems appropriate in its sole discretion.  Veritone reserves the right to approve or reject any Developer Software, as determined by Veritone in its sole judgment based on Veritone’s evaluation and testing of the Evaluation Package.  No Developer Software will be released for use in the Platform without Veritone’s final written approval.  Veritone may elect to make any approved Developer Software available in the Platform, and may suspend or cease use of the Developer Software in the Platform at any time, in its sole discretion.     

**5.5.   Changes.** Veritone reserves the right to add, remove or modify the Requirements and/or the required contents of the Evaluation Package at any time in its sole discretion.  In the event that any changes to the Requirements are made after Veritone has approved the Developer Software and released it in the Platform, Veritone will notify Developer, and Developer will evaluate whether the Developer Software meets such changed Requirements and, if not, will use commercially reasonable efforts to modify the Developer Software to conform to the changed Requirements and submit an updated Evaluation Package to Veritone for evaluation and approval.  Developer acknowledges that, if Developer is not able to meet the changed Requirements, the Developer Software may no longer be made available by Veritone in the Platform.  

**6.     Developer Software Maintenance; Change Notification.**  Developer will use commercially reasonable efforts to make the Developer Software available on an uninterrupted basis, except during reasonable scheduled maintenance intervals communicated in advance to Veritone.  Developer will make available to Veritone, at no additional cost, all updates, bug fixes, and error corrections to the Developer Software, and will provide reasonable technical support to Veritone related to the Developer Software.  If, following Veritone’s approval of the Developer Software, Developer desires to make any change to the Developer Software or the computing environment in which the Developer Software resides, Developer will provide prior written notification to Veritone and submit an updated Evaluation Package to Veritone for evaluation and approval. 

**7.     Data Security and Destruction.** If any Veritone Content is transmitted to, accessed by, processed and/or generated by Developer, Developer will maintain and use administrative, physical, and technical safeguards for protection of the security, confidentiality and integrity of all such Veritone Content in accordance with prevailing industry standards and best practices, and any data security requirements or standards set forth in the Requirements.**  **Veritone Content shall be used and stored by Developer only to the extent required for the Developer Software to process the Veritone Content, and to generate and return metadata derived therefrom (if applicable), in accordance with the Requirements, and Developer shall not use or store the Veritone Content for any other purpose whatsoever.  Unless otherwise provided in the Requirements or directed by Veritone, Developer shall ensure the secure destruction of all Veritone Content immediately following completion of such processing.

**8.     Fees, Payment and Other Terms.** In conjunction with Veritone’s approval of the Developer Software, and prior to the release of the Developer Software in the Platform, Veritone and Developer will mutually agree in writing to the license, usage or other applicable fees payable by or to either party or any revenue/expense sharing model (depending on the nature of the Developer Software), and related payment and/or other commercial terms, that will be applicable to Developer’s provision and Veritone’s use of the Developer Software.  Such agreement may be evidenced by a written fee proposal submitted by one party and a written acknowledgment and acceptance thereof by the other party in connection with the approval of the Developer Software, or by a separate written agreement between the parties. 

**9.     Supplemental Terms.** Developer acknowledges that additional terms and conditions may be applicable Developer’s provision and Veritone’s use of the Developer Software following its development and the approval thereof by Veritone.  Prior to the release of the Developer Software in the Platform, the parties will negotiate in good faith to reach mutual agreement on any such required additional terms and conditions.

**10.   VDA Updates; No Support or Maintenance.** Veritone may extend, enhance, or otherwise modify the VDA and the SDK at any time. If any updates to the VDA or the SDK are made available by Veritone, the provisions of these Terms and Conditions will govern such updates, unless an update is accompanied by a separate license in which case the terms of that license will govern. Veritone is not obligated to provide any maintenance, technical or other support for the VDA or the SDK. Developer acknowledges that Veritone has no express or implied obligation to announce or make available any updates to the VDA or the SDK to anyone in the future. Should an update be made available, it may have APIs, features, functionality that are different from those found in the VDA or the SDK licensed hereunder

**11.   Amendment; Communication.** Veritone reserves the right, in its discretion, to impose additional or different terms and conditions applicable to the access and use of the VDA, the SDK and/or the Platform (including new terms, updates, revisions, supplements, modifications, and additional rules, policies, terms and conditions) (collectively, "Additional Terms").  Any Additional Terms will be communicated to Developer by Veritone through the VDA or other means. Developer will be deemed to have agreed to any such Additional Terms, and these Terms and Conditions will be deemed to be automatically amended to incorporate such Additional Terms, unless Developer provides written notice of rejection of the Additional Terms to Veritone within 30 days following receipt of Veritone’s communication, in which case the parties will negotiate in good faith to reach mutual agreement on such Additional Terms.  In addition, Veritone may be sending communications to Developer from time to time. Such communications may be in the form of phone calls, emails or notices published in the VDA and may include, but not be limited to, marketing materials, technical information, and updates and/or changes regarding Developer’s access and use of the VDA. By accepting these Terms and Conditions, Developer hereby consents to Veritone providing Developer with such communications

**12.   Feedback.** During the Term, Developer may provide Veritone with such written evaluations, comments and/or suggestions (collectively, "**Feedback**") regarding the VDA, the SDK or the Platform.  Developer acknowledges and agrees that any Feedback provided to Veritone by Developer hereunder shall be deemed to be Veritone Property and Developer hereby assigns all right, title and interest in and to such Feedback to Veritone and acknowledges that Veritone will be entitled to, without limitation, implement and exploit any such Feedback in any manner without any restriction or obligation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Developer acknowledges that Veritone is not obligated to act on any such Feedback.

**13.   Confidentiality.**

**13.1. Confidential Information.** Each party (a receiving party) acknowledges and agrees that it may obtain information relating to the other party (a disclosing party), its and/or its third party service providers’ business or technologies which is of a confidential and proprietary nature ("**Confidential Information**"). Such Confidential Information may include, but is not limited to, trade secrets, know how, invention techniques, processes, programs, schematics, software source documents, data, and sales and marketing plans, and any other information which the receiving party knows or has reason to know is, or which by its nature would reasonably be considered to be, confidential, proprietary or trade secret information of the other party. Without limiting the foregoing, Confidential Information of Veritone shall include the VDA, the SDK, the Platform and all associated software and documentation, the Veritone Content, and the Feedback. 

**13.2. Confidentiality and Non-Use Obligations.**  The receiving party shall, for a period of three years from the date of each disclosure (or, in the case of software and trade secrets, in perpetuity), keep in trust and confidence all Confidential Information of the disclosing party, and shall not (i) use such Confidential Information other than as expressly authorized under these Terms and Conditions or as required for the receiving party to perform its obligations under these Terms and Conditions, or (ii) disclose any Confidential Information of the disclosing party to third parties, without the disclosing party’s written consent. The receiving party shall provide access to the disclosing party’s Confidential Information to only those of its employees and agents who have a need to know and who are bound by obligations to protect the Confidential Information that are at least as restrictive as these Terms and Conditions, and receiving party shall be responsible for any breaches of these obligations by its employees or agents. The receiving party shall protect, and instruct its employees and agents to protect, Confidential Information using at least the same care that the receiving party’s uses to protect its own confidential information, but in no case less than a prudent and reasonable standard of care.  The receiving party further agrees to immediately return to the disclosing party all Confidential Information (including all copies, extracts and summaries thereof) in the receiving party’s possession, custody, or control upon the disclosing party’s request. The obligations of confidentiality and non-use shall not apply to information which (a) has entered the public domain except where such entry is the result of the receiving party’s breach of these Terms and Conditions; (b) prior to disclosure hereunder, was already in the receiving party’s possession and not subject to any confidentiality obligations, as demonstrated by written evidence; (c) subsequent to disclosure hereunder is obtained by the receiving party on a non-confidential basis from a third party who has the right to disclose such information to the receiving party; or (d) has been independently developed by the receiving party without use of or reference to the disclosing party’s Confidential Information, as demonstrated by written evidence.

**13.3. Permitted Disclosures.** The receiving party may make disclosures (i) as required by applicable law or the rules of an stock exchange on which such party’s shares are then traded; or (ii) as compelled by court order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction provided that the receiving party subject to such court order (a) provides the disclosing party with prompt written notice of any such compelled disclosure, (b) uses diligent reasonable efforts to limit disclosure, (c) uses commercially reasonable efforts to obtain confidential treatment or a protective order in connection with the information subject to such compelled disclosure, and (d) allows the disclosing party to participate in any such proceeding.

**13.4. Injunctive Relief.**  If any party, or any of its employees or agents, breaches or threatens to breach the obligations of this Section 13, the affected party may seek injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, in addition to its other remedies, as the inadequacy of monetary damages and irreparable harm are acknowledged.

**14.   Warranties and Disclaimers**.

**14.1.   Mutual Warranties**. Each party represents and warrants to the other that: (i) it is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation, and has full power, rights and authority to be bound by these Terms and Conditions and carry out its obligations hereunder; and (ii) these Terms and Conditions and the performance hereunder by such party does not conflict with any other agreement, instrument or understanding to which it is a party or by which it may be bound, nor would violate any applicable law or regulation.

**14.2.   Developer Software Warranty.** Supplier represents and warrants to Veritone that it has all right, title and interest in and to the Developer Software and Developer Content, including all Intellectual Property Rights, and that the Developer Software and Developer Content do not and will not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of any third party.  Supplier further represents and warrants that: (a) the Developer Software (i) will conform in all material respects to the Requirements and to the descriptions, specifications, samples and related documents submitted as part of the Evaluation Package approved by Veritone or otherwise agreed upon by Developer and Veritone in writing, (ii) will be free from significant programming errors or defects, and (iii) will be free from viruses, malware, worms, time bombs, Trojan Horses, software locks, backdoors, trapdoors, contaminants, and other harmful or malicious code, and Developer shall repair and correct any nonconformity, errors or defects promptly upon receipt of notice from Veritone of any such nonconformity, errors or defects; and (b) Developer will maintain and use administrative, physical, and technical safeguards for protection of the security, confidentiality and integrity of all Veritone Content that is transmitted to and/or processed in the Developer Software in accordance with prevailing industry standards and best practices, and any data security requirements or standards set forth in the Requirements.

**14.3.   Disclaimer of Warranty.**  THE VDA, SDK AND PLATFORM ARE PROVIDED BY VERITONE ON AN "AS IS" AND “AS AVAILABLE” BASIS. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, VERITONE MAKES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE VDA, SDK OR PLATFORM, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, QUALITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING OR USAGE OF TRADE, AND WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT. VERITONE DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE VDA, SDK OR PLATFORM WILL BE ERROR-FREE, WILL RUN UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT ALL ERRORS CAN OR WILL BE CORRECTED. NO ADVICE OR INFORMATION, WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, OBTAINED BY DEVELOPER FROM VERITONE SHALL CREATE ANY SUCH WARRANTY. DEVELOPER HAS BEEN ADVISED AND AGREES THAT NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING IN THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS TO THE CONTRARY, VERITONE DOES NOT REPRESENT, WARRANT OR COVENANT THAT IT HAS SECURED ALL NECESSARY RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO ANY MEDIA MONITORED AND/OR RECORDED BY THE PLATFORM AND IT IS DEVELOPER’S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO IDENTIFY, SOLICIT AND OBTAIN ANY NECESSARY RIGHTS AND APPROVALS FOR ITS USE THEREOF.

**15.   Indemnification.**

**15.1. Developer Indemnification of Veritone**.  Developer will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Veritone and its subsidiaries, affiliates, successors, assigns, licensors, and their respective members, officers, directors, employees, licensors, agents, from and against any liability or expense, including, without limitation, any expenses, losses, damages, judgments, litigation costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees that Veritone may incur as a result of any claim, suit or proceeding brought against Veritone by any third party arising or resulting from (a) any allegation that the Developer Software or Developer Content, or any part thereof, or Veritone’s use thereof, misappropriates or infringes upon any third party’s Intellectual Property Rights, except to the extent such claims arise from Veritone’s negligence, misconduct or violation of these Terms and Conditions in its use thereof; (b) Developer’s breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or obligation contained in these Terms and Conditions; or (c) Developer’s use of the VDA, SDK or the Platform (including use, publishing, posting or otherwise sharing of any data or content derived from the Platform) in any manner that violates these Terms and Conditions, or any laws, rules, regulations, or that misappropriates or infringes any Intellectual Property Rights of any third party; *provided that* Veritone gives Developer prompt notice of any such claims, cooperates with Developer in responding to such claims, and permits Developer to control the defense or settlement of such claims, subject to Veritone’s right to (i) conduct the defense of such claims at Veritone’s expense, or participate in the defense of such claims with its own counsel at its own expense, and (ii) approve any settlement that binds or purports to bind Veritone.

**15.2. Veritone Indemnification of Developer**.  Veritone will defend, indemnify and hold harmless Developer and its subsidiaries, affiliates, successors, assigns, licensors, and their respective members, officers, directors, employees, licensors, agents, from and against any liability or expense, including without limitation, any expenses, losses, damages, judgments, litigation costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees that Developer may incur as a result of any claim, suit or proceeding brought against Developer by any third party arising or resulting from any allegation that the VDA, the SDK or the Platform, or any part thereof, misappropriates or infringes upon any third party’s Intellectual Property Rights, except to the extent such claims arise from Developer’s negligence, misconduct or violation of these Terms and Conditions in its use thereof; *provided that* Developer gives Veritone prompt notice of any such claims, cooperates with Veritone in responding to such claims, and permits Veritone to control the defense or settlement of such claims, subject to Developer’s right to (i) conduct the defense of such claims at Developer’s expense, or participate in the defense of such claims with its own counsel at its own expense, and (ii) approve any settlement that binds or purports to bind Developer.

**16.   Term and Termination.** These Terms and Conditions and the licenses granted hereunder shall remain in effect until terminated as provided herein.

**16.1. Termination for Breach.** These Terms and Conditions and the licenses granted hereunder may be terminated by either party immediately upon notice to the other party if the other party (i) materially breaches any provision of these Terms and Conditions and does not cure such breach within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of written notice of such breach; or (ii) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, is declared insolvent, or has a receiver or trustee in bankruptcy appointed to take charge of all or part of such party’s property.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Veritone may immediately suspend Developer’s access to the VDA and/or the Platform or may immediately terminate these Terms and Conditions and the licenses granted hereunder if Develop breaches its obligations under Sections 2.1, 4.1, 7, 13 or 14 of these Terms and Conditions.

**16.2. Termination by Veritone for Convenience.**  Veritone may terminate these Terms and Conditions and the licenses granted hereunder by providing thirty (30) days prior written notice to Developer. Developer may terminate these Terms and Conditions and the licenses granted hereunder by providing (i) thirty (30) days prior written notice, if such termination will occur prior to Veritone’s initial approval of the Developer Software, or (ii) ninety (90) days prior written notice, if such termination will occur after Veritone’s initial approval of the Developer Software.

**16.3. Effect of Termination.** Upon termination of these Terms and Conditions, (i) all licenses and other rights granted herein shall automatically terminate; (ii) Veritone shall immediately cease use of the Developer Software and shall delete all copies of the Developer Software, except for archival copies which may be retained and used for legal and compliance purposes; and (iii) Developer shall immediately cease using the VDA and the Platform and shall delete all copies of the SDK, the Platform and all Veritone Content.

**16.4. Survival**.  The provisions of Sections 4, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.3, 16.4, 17 and 19 hereof shall survive any termination of these Terms and Conditions for any reason.

**17.   Limitation of Liability**.  IN NO EVENT SHALL VERITONE BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST DATA OR LOST PROFITS, OR COSTS OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, HOWEVER ARISING, EVEN IF IT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. VERITONE'S MAXIMUM LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF, RELATING TO OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SHALL IN NO EVENT EXCEED $10,000.

**18.   Competitive Solutions.** Subject to Veritone’s and Developer’s respective rights and obligations under these Terms and Conditions, Veritone acknowledges that Developer and/or other parties may develop and publish systems and applications that are similar to or otherwise compete with the Platform or other Veritone products and services, and Developer acknowledges that Veritone and/or other parties may develop and publish Applications, Engines, Data Products or other solutions, products or services that are similar to or otherwise compete with the Developer Software, or Developer’s other products or services, and nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude Veritone from making any such competing solutions, products and services available through the Platform.

**19.   Miscellaneous.**

**19.1.   No Assignment.** Neither party may assign any of its rights or obligations under these Terms and Conditions without the prior written consent of the other party, except that either party may assign its rights and obligations under these Terms and Conditions without the consent of the other party to an affiliate directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with such party or in connection with any merger (by operation of law or otherwise), consolidation, reorganization, change in control or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the business to which these Terms and Conditions relate. These terms and conditions inure to the benefit of and shall be binding on the parties’ permitted assignees, transferees and successors.

**19.2.   Compliance with Laws.** Developer shall comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in the United States and other countries including, but not limited to, trademark and copyright laws, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control laws and regulations (the "Applicable Laws"), in its performance under these Terms and Conditions and its development and provision of the Developer Software.  Developer shall promptly inform Veritone in writing upon becoming aware of any violations of Applicable Laws in connection with the VDA and/or these Terms and Conditions.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Developer shall not use or export, re-export or otherwise transfer any Veritone Confidential Information except as authorized by United States law and the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Veritone Confidential Information was obtained. In particular, but without limitation, Veritone Confidential Information may not be exported, re-exported or otherwise transferred (a) into any countries subject to U.S. embargoes or sanctions or (b) to any person or entity listed on the Consolidated Screening List published by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (which is a combination of the denied or restricted parties lists of the U.S. Departments of the Treasury, State and Commerce). By accepting these Terms and Conditions and registering for a VDA account, Developer represents and warrants that it is not located in any such country or on any such list.

**19.3.   Severability.** If any provision of these Terms and Conditions is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in such provision, and the other provisions of these Terms and Conditions remain in full force and effect.

**19.4.   No Waiver.** The failure of either party to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms and Conditions shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision.

**19.5.   Controlling Law.** These Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California (other than the conflict of law rules) and subject to the sole jurisdiction of the courts sitting in Orange County, California.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 19.5 shall be deemed to limit the parties’ rights to seek injunctive relief in any other court of law of competent jurisdiction.

**19.6.   Relationship of Parties.** Nothing contained in these Terms and Conditions shall create or imply an agency relationship between Developer and Veritone, nor shall these Terms and Conditions be deemed to constitute a joint venture or partnership between Developer and Veritone.  Neither party has any authority to make commitments or enter into contracts on behalf of, bind, or otherwise oblige the other party. 

**19.7.   No Publicity.** Developer shall not issue any press releases or make any other public statements (including on Developer’s website) regarding the VDA, these Terms and Conditions, or the relationship of the parties without Veritone’s express prior written approval.

**19.8.   Notices.** All notices to either party shall be in writing and delivered by hand or by certified mail or overnight delivery service, in the case of Developer, to the address furnished in Developer’s account registration, and in the case of Veritone, to the address of its corporate headquarters, or to such other address as either party shall give by notice to the other party. Notices to Developer may also be sent by email to the email address furnished in Developer’s account registration.

**19.9.   Force Majeure**.  Except for the obligation to make payments of any fees or any other amounts due hereunder, neither party will be liable for any failure or delay in its performance under these Terms and Conditions due to any cause beyond such party’s control including acts of war, terrorism, acts of God, embargo, riot, sabotage, labor shortage or dispute, governmental act, or failure of the Internet, or any component comprising or operating the network infrastructure thereof, provided that the delayed party: (i) gives the other party prompt notice of such cause, and (ii) uses its reasonable commercial efforts to promptly correct such failure or delay in performance. 

**19.10. Construction**.  These Terms and Conditions shall be fairly interpreted and construed in accordance with its terms and without strict interpretation or construction in favor of or against either party. 

**19.11. Headings**.  Section headings are for reference purposes only, and should not be used in the interpretation hereof.  Unless otherwise expressly stated in these Terms and Conditions, the words "herein," “hereof,” “hereto,” and “hereunder” and other words of similar import refer to these Terms and Conditions as a whole and not to any particular section, subsection, or other subdivision.  The words “include” and “including” shall not be construed or interpreted as terms of limitation.  The words “day,” “month,” and “year” mean, respectively, calendar day, calendar month, and calendar year. Pronouns such as “he,” “him,” “his”, “she,” “her,” “hers,” “it” and/or “its” are used only as a matter of convenience and are to be construed as being interchangeable.

**19.12. Entire Agreement; Amendment.** These Terms and Conditions constitute the complete and exclusive agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, superseding and replacing any and all prior agreements, communications, and understandings, both written and oral, regarding such subject matter.  No addendum, waiver, consent, modification, amendment or change of the terms of these Terms and Conditions shall bind Veritone unless in a writing that references these Terms and Conditions and is signed by a duly authorized representative of Veritone.

**19.13. Attorney’s Fees.** If any action arises under these Terms and Conditions, including, without limitation the interpretation or enforcement of any term of these Terms and Conditions, the prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and related costs.

**19.14. Federal Government Use of VDA.** If applicable, Veritone is providing the VDA, the SDK and the Platform, including related software and technology, for ultimate federal government end use solely in accordance with the following: Government technical data and software rights related to the VDA, the SDK and the Platform include only those rights customarily provided to the public as defined in these Terms and Conditions. This customary commercial license is provided in accordance with FAR 12.211 (Technical Data) and FAR 12.212 (Software) and, for Department of Defense transactions, DFAR 252.227- 7015 (Technical Data – Commercial Items) and DFAR 227.7202-3 (Rights in Commercial Computer Software or Computer Software Documentation). If a government agency has a need for rights not conveyed under these terms, it must negotiate with Veritone to determine if there are acceptable terms for transferring such rights, and a mutually acceptable written addendum specifically conveying such rights must be included in any applicable contract or agreement.

**19.15. Use of Developer Software under Government Contracts.** In the event that the Developer Software is used by Veritone under a contract of the United States Government, all terms and conditions required by applicable law, regulation or by such Government contract to be incorporated into subcontracts or purchase orders are hereby incorporated herein by reference, including, but not limited to, the following provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (the "FAR") (to the extent applicable as provided therein), as such provisions may be subsequently amended or substituted: 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Jun 2010); 52.203-19, Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or Statements (Jan 2017); 52.204-21, Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems (Jun 2016); 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Nov 2016); 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Apr 2015); 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Sept 2016); 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Oct 2015); 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities (Jul 2014); 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Feb 2016); 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010); 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Mar 2015); 52.224-3, Privacy Training (Jan 2017); 52.232-40, Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business Subcontractors (Dec 2013); 52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct 2010); 52.203-11 Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sept 2007); 52.203-12, Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Oct 2010); and 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Apr 2010).  In addition, the following provision is hereby incorporated by reference as required by the regulations implementing Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, at 41 CFR Part 60-741: **This contractor and subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60-741.5(a).  This regulation prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability, and requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities.**  To the extent that these Terms and Conditions are inconsistent with any such required terms and conditions, the required terms and conditions will prevail and be binding on Developer. Developer agrees that it will furnish to Veritone upon request a certificate or certificates in such form as Veritone may require certifying that Developer is in compliance with such provisions and any other applicable terms, conditions, laws or regulations. 
